# SNHU_ClientServerDevelopment22EW1
How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
Following objected oriented design practices in my planning and coding, well documenting my code and looking to use existing design patterns helps maintain my codes maintainablity readability and adaptablitity.  One example of this in the approaches I took with my CRUD Python module was to employ parameterization wherever possible.  Rather than hard coding it to a specific port, database, or collection, it accepts the port and database info as parameters when instantiation happens and the collection name as parameters as part of its CRUD function calls.  This should allow it to provide the same CRUD functionality to access any Mongo database once it is imported into as a module into another python program.
How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
My approach to this project was relatively similar to many other projects I've worked on.  Start by information gathering, mostly from the assignment itself in this case but also through clarification of any unclear requests via our courses general discussion threads.  Analyze that inforamation to find what the clients needs and requests are, then plan out the work that needs to be done, typically leading out to stubbing out the actual code classes and functions along with initial documentation and paramatization and then writing the actual code.  Where possible code completion is done in "bite sized chunks" that can be tested independantly before progressing to the next piece until the entire program is completed, finally the entire system can be tested as a whole any remaining fixes implemented and any additional remaining documentation completed.  This course did convince me on the value of NoSQL (or at least MongoDB) and that they have a strong place as well as SQL databases which I was previously familiar with.
What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
To put it succinctly, Computer Scientists write code that increases task efficiency.  In the case of Grazioso Salvare, without any software or databases, someone would need to compile a written record of the animals likely kept at independent shelters with no central records.  To learn about animals that met their needs Grazioso Salvare would likely need to send someone between those locations to manually look through thousands of records and write the data they needed on pieces of paper that they could bring back to the office and look through, maybe compiling them into seperate physical folders in order to track potential animal candidates for their programs.  Keeping those files up to date or finding a viable candidate in anything resembling a timely fashion would be next to impossible.  With a database and efficiently written software to query it, we can obtain those results in moments.   
